# Neurons don't fire

This is a bad name for the article, neurons do fire, but they probably don't fire in the way you think they do and the difference is significant for anyone performing AI research.

In short: the orthodox view is that neurons are in a resting state summing potentials until they reach a threshold after which they 'fire' a potential down their axon to be summed by other neurons; the more nuanced view is that a neuron's resting state also includes firing short spikes of activity every 100ms or so, and after reaching a potential threshold they fire a rapid sequence of many spikes over a short, but relatively significant period of time. The important distinction is to go from the orthodox view of no activity followed by an instant of activity, and to go to low activity of fairly regular spikes followed by a sustained period of intense activity.

This distinction is subtle but important. An instantaneous signal is adequate to interface with a static system, but a period of sustained stimulation is essential to reliably interface with a dynamic and stateful system.

The orthodox view is something like an electric circuit in which a neuron firing has an action equivalent to connecting the input wire of a relay to the circuit. Instantly a current will flow into the relay, a connection will be made and in turn a current flows through a new circuit. The dynamic view is that the dynamic patterns of activity in a part of a brain are more like a train going round a circular train track. In this case a neuron firing has an action equivalent to a railway switch or set of railway points (the device which determines which tracks a train continues on at a branch point) switching between rails. In this case an instantaneous flipping of the switch, immediately followed by a flip back, would be very unlikely to affect the journey of the train. The action of the neuron would therefore have to fire, and maintain the alternative position of the switch for an extended period of time to have a practical probability of diverting the train onto a new path and analogously modifying the pattern of activity of the brain. The longer the neuron fires, analogous to the switch maintining its alternate position for longer, the larger the probability of modifying the behaviour of the train. If the switch maintains the alternate position for the time that it takes the train to make an entire circuit then it is guaranteed to modify the path of the train.

So why is this distinction important? It is easier to imagine how a system such as this could maintain multiple states within a single system. It's also easier to imagine how these systems could control something in real time, where the action in the brain hold some synchronicity with the action being performed in the real world.
